Safe extensions (#19)
mlswg/mls-extensions: draft-ietf-mls-extensions.md

start of the epoch has the added advantage that the source key material is
deleted after use, allowing the derived key material to be deleted later even
during the same MLS epoch to achieve forward secrecy. The following protocol
secrets can be used to derive key from for use by extensions:

- epoch_secret at the beginning of an epoch
- extension_secret during an epoch

The extension_secret is an additional secret derived from the epoch_secret at
the beginning of the epoch in the same way as the other secrets listed in Table
4 of {{!RFC9420}} using the label "extension".

Any derivation performed by an extension either from the epoch_secret or the
extension_secret has to use the following function:

~~~ tls
DeriveExtensionSecret(Secret, Label) =
  ExpandWithLabel(Secret, "ExtensionExport " + ExtensionType + " " + Label)
~~~

Where ExpandWithLabel is defined in Section 8 of {{!RFC9420}} and where ExtensionType
MUST be set to the ExtensionType of the implemented extension.

### Pre-Shared Keys (PSKs)

An extension can use MLS to enforce that all group members have access to and
agree on potentially secret information exchanged out of band, e.g. a password or

> a shared file.

Author: Good point! I've updated the text to elaborate a bit more on what the PSK mechanism can be used for.

  opaque psk_nonce<V>;
} PreSharedKeyID;
~~~

### Extension Designer Tools

The safe extension API allows extension designers to sign and encrypt payloads
without the need to register their own IANA labels. Following the same pattern,
this document also provides ways for extension designers to define their own
wire formats, proposals and credentials.

#### Wire Formats

Extensions can define their own MLS messages by using the mls_extension_message
MLS Wire Format. The mls_extension_message Wire Format is IANA registered
specifically for this purpose and extends the select statement in the MLSMessage
struct as follows:

~~~tls
case mls_extension_message:
    ExtensionContent extension_content;
~~~

The extension_type in `extension_content` MUST be set to the type of the
extension in question.
Processing of self-defined wire formats has to be defined by the extension.

#### Proposals

Similar to wire formats, extensions can define their own proposals by using one
of three dedicated extension proposal types: extension_proposal,
extension_path_proposal and extension_external_propsal. Each type contains the
same ExtensionContent struct, but is validated differently: extension_proposal

> requires no path and can not be sent by an external sender
> extension_path_proposal requires a path and can not be sent by an external
> sender extensions_external_proposal requires no path and can be sent by an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requires no UpdatePath and can not be sent by an external sender
extension_path_proposal requires an UpdatePath and can not be sent by an external
sender extensions_external_proposal requires no UpdatePath and can be sent by an
```

  confidential and authenticated channel from the inviting group member to new
  joiners. Just like GroupContext extensions, they may also be visible to
  external joiners or even parts of the delivery service. Unlike GroupContext
  extensions, the GroupInfo struct is not part of the group state that all group
  members agree on.
- KeyPackage Extensions: KeyPackages (and the extensions they include) are
  pre-published by individual clients for asynchronous group joining. They are
  included in Add proposals and become part of the group state once the Add
  proposal is committed. They are, however, removed from the group state when
  the owner of the KeyPackage does the first commit with a path. As such,
  KeyPackage extensions can be used to communicate data to anyone who wants to
  invite the owner to a group, as well as the other members of the group the
  owner is added to. Note that KeyPackage extensions are visible to the server
  that provides the KeyPackages for download, as well as any part of the
  delivery service that can see the public group state.
- LeafNode Extensions: LeafNodes are a part of every KeyPackage and thus follow

>   the same lifecycle. However, they are also part of any commit that includes a
>   path and clients generally have a leaf node in each group they are a member

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the same lifecycle. However, they are also part of any commit that includes an
  UpdatePath and clients generally have a leaf node in each group they are a member
```

`application_content` is interpreted as the first MediaType specified in
`required_media_types`.

> ## Role-Based Access Control Extension

Reviewer: Could we please make this PR exclusive to safe extensions, and split-out a separate PR for RBAC (which I also support)?

Author: The RBAC extensions was meant as an example for use of the safe API. I'd be happy to move it to a separate PR. @psyoptix any thoughts?
